VACMS-9416: Reworks local commands. (#12192)
department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms: READMES/local.md

- pre-commit - Run pre-commit checks (shell web container command)
- pull - Pull files and database using a configured provider plugin.
- push - push files and database using a configured provider plugin.
- restart - Restart a project or several projects.
- share - Share project on the internet via ngrok.
- snapshot - Create a database snapshot for one or more projects.
- ssh - Starts a shell session in the container for a service. Uses web service by default.
- start - Start a ddev project.
- stop - Stop and remove the containers of a project. Does not lose or harm anything unless you add --remove-data.
- task - Run taskfile target (shell web container command)
- test - Run all VA.gov tests, as defined in tests.yml. Add arguments to run subsets of test. For example, "ddev test web" will run all of the "va/web/*" tests. (shell web container command)
- test-performance - Run performance tests (shell web container command)
- version - print ddev version and component versions
- web-build - Build the web frontend (shell web container command)
- xdebug - Enable or disable xdebug (shell web container command)
- xhprof - Enable or disable xhprof (global shell web container command)

> - yarn - Run yarn inside the web container in the root of the project (Use --cwd for another directory) (global shell host container command)

Reviewer: Maybe at least leave something like `Use ```ddev help``` to get a list of commands.`

> - yarn - Run yarn inside the web container in the root of the project (Use --cwd for another directory) (global shell host container command)

Author: Yeah, it's really hard to read these diffs 😭

> 1. Make sure you run `mkcert -install` to get the ddev certificate root installed. You only need to do this the first time you bring install/run ddev.

Reviewer: Should confirm the need it's not relevant. Obviously it should have been written in a better way than 'skip step 12', but it was probably there for a reason.

I have a Windows/WSL2 machine, or at least a Windows machine I could test on; or we could ask a WSL2 user.

> 1. Make sure you run `mkcert -install` to get the ddev certificate root installed. You only need to do this the first time you bring install/run ddev.

Reviewer: Can spelunk from here: https://github.com/drud/ddev/blame/master/docs/content/users/install/ddev-installation.md

> 1. Make sure you run `mkcert -install` to get the ddev certificate root installed. You only need to do this the first time you bring install/run ddev.

Author: A bit of a pain because these lines were added in a blob from an existing Confluence doc.

At [this point](https://github.com/drud/ddev/blob/81ec233273208fcad39c37759abdc36ceadf8bc1/docs/content/users/install/ddev-installation.md), it was "Open the WSL2 terminal, for example `Ubuntu` from the Windows start menu."  So, the step before literally installing DDEV 😕  At that time, the file was "renamed" from being the Acquia provider-specific documentation.

At [this point](https://github.com/drud/ddev/blob/a94f9d7aad2f3ec8012fd3f6f118dac71033557c/docs/content/users/install/ddev-installation.md), the oldest commit _after_ the docs were transferred from Confluence, it's still "Open the WSL2 terminal, for example `Ubuntu` from the Windows start menu.".

It's possible it shifted around in there, but it's not a great start 😂

> 1. Make sure you run `mkcert -install` to get the ddev certificate root installed. You only need to do this the first time you bring install/run ddev.

Author: Every commit from [here](https://github.com/drud/ddev/commits/master/docs/content/users/install/ddev-installation.md) was either "install DDEV" or "open the WSL2 console".

I'm comfortable assuming that DDEV knows how to document their own installation process.

    Use `composer set-path` command to print out the needed PATH variable to allow running any command in the `./bin` directory just by it's name.
Change to the CMS repository directory and run `composer list` to list all available commands.

    For example:

    ```bash
    $  composer set-path
    > # Run the command output below to set your current terminal PATH variable.
    > # This will allow you to run any command in the ./bin directory without a path.
    > echo "export PATH=${PATH}"
    export PATH=/Users/VaDeveloper/Projects/VA/va.gov-cms/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin
    ```

    Then, copy the last line (with all of the paths) and paste it into your desired terminal, and hit ENTER.

    Once the path is set, you can run any of the commands listed in the [bin directory](bin) directly:

    ```bash
    $ phpcs --version
    PHP_CodeSniffer version 2.9.2 (stable) by Squiz (http://www.squiz.net)
    ```

    The path will remain in place as you change directories.

> 

Author: Some commands need to be executed outside of DDEV, namely `composer va:test:cypress-interactive` (there may be others).

## DDEV

We use [DDEV](https://ddev.com/) to power our local sandboxes.  See [ddev.readthedocs.io](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for general documentation.

### Prerequisites

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) (Mac only)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Getting started

1. Follow the DDEV [installation documentation](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/install/ddev-installation/).
1. Make sure you run `mkcert -install` to get the ddev certificate root installed. You only need to do this the first time you bring install/run ddev.
1. Run `ddev config global --mutagen-enabled` if you’re on a Mac.

> 1. Make sure the `va.gov-cms` repo is cloned to a folder under your home directory.

Reviewer: I could read this as requiring the clone be at `~/va.gov-cms` . <strike>under</strike> "somewhere within" maybe?

Author: Fair enough.

```suggestion
1. Make sure the `va.gov-cms` repo is cloned to a folder somewhere within your home directory.
```

1. Run `ddev start` in the root of the va.gov-cms repo.

### Commands

Run `ddev help` to list all of the available commands.

To run any of those scripts, you can run `ddev <script-name> [options]` (for example, `ddev blackfire on` to turn on Blackfire profiling).

## Local development settings

Common development settings shared for all local development are at `docroot/sites/default/settings/settings.local.php`. This is committed to the repo and shared for all engineers. It shouldn't be used for changes specific to an individual engineer.

Engineers can customize their individual local environment by creating a file at `docroot/sites/default/settings.local.php`. This file will be ignored by git. Drupal core provides some common local development settings at `docroot/sites/example.settings.local.php`.

Drupal core provides some optional development services at `docroot/sites/default/development.services.yml`. Custom services can be added at `docroot/sites/default/local.services.yml`. This file will be ignored by git. An example is provided at `docroot/sites/default/example.local.services.yml`.

## IDE plugins

> There are plugins available to provide inline style checking according to project standards.

Reviewer: Not for this PR but we should probably build out some more robust IDE-specific configuration documentation, and/or provide more automatic configuration than we currently do.

Author: #12333

### Stylelint

- [PhpStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/phpstorm/using-stylelint-code-quality-tool.html)
- [VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=stylelint.vscode-stylelint)

## Pulling DB from Prod

Either method pulls a public copy of prod that has been sanitized to protect
user data. The db export appears in `.dumps/cms-prod-db-sanitized-latest.sql`.

- **DDEV** `ddev pull va --skip-files`
- **Shell** `./scripts/sync-db.sh`

## Pulling Files

This is rarely needed and can take a long time.  Don't run unless you need to.
This copies the `/sites/default/files/*` from PROD down to your local environment.

- **DDEV** `ddev pull va --skip-db`
- **Shell** `./scripts/sync-files.sh`

### Composer

There are a number of helpful composer "scripts" available.  

These are defined in the [composer.json](composer.json) file, in the `scripts` section, and described in the `scripts-descriptions` section. These are made available as Composer commands.

Change to the CMS repository directory and run `composer list` to list all available commands.

See https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/scripts.md for more information on how to create and manage scripts.

### Drush

> All Drush commands should be run with either a `composer` or `drush` prefix to ensure they function as intended.

Reviewer: ?? wat mean

Examples:

> - `composer drush uli`

Reviewer: why would we ever run `composer` without `ddev` in front of it?

Author: Some commands are host-specific, e.g. `va:test:cypress-interactive`, which opens Cypress and a browser on the host machine.  That command's not relevant to Tugboat/BRD environments, but it is to local environments.
